---
title: "NYC"
aliases: ["NYC"]
date: 2019-03-25T08:45:26-03:00
skip_feed: true
---

I had to chance to go to travel to NYC more than once. The first time
I came there alone and the second one I went with my wife and both
trips were good.

## Airport

I always try to go to JFK because it's the biggest and simplest
airport to use. The airport is really big and they have a train called
Airtrain, that can be used to go from one terminal to another and also
connects to the Subway.

## Transportation

The transportation in New York is amazingly practical (but dirty). I
was able to use the subway to go anywhere I wanted. There are stations
almost everywhere.

I would recommend you to buy a weekly pass for the Subway so you don't
have to keep track of your credit. Believe me, if you're planning to
visit many touristic places, it will worth your money (yes, I do the
math every time before buying something). It costs around $30 (as of
mid-2019) and if you consider 1 round trip from e.g. Brooklyn and one
trip here and there it would be worthwhile.

Be careful with the side you're going to enter in the subway. Where I
live (SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil) you can enter on whatever entrance and then
pick the side you want (e.g. Noath or South). In NYC you have to be
sure you're entering in the right entrance because **some** stations
have one entrance for each side (e.g. one entrace to go to Manhatan &
the Bronx, and another one to go to Downtown Brooklyn).

## Places to visit

There are some places that are must see (IMO) and others that are nice
but OK. Here are the must see and why:

+ **Statue of Liberty**: I almost not went there for the first time
  because it seemed too crowded and was 'just a statue'. In the end I
  decided to go and the whole experience proved me wrong. It's not
  just a statue, the whole story behind it is really nice to know. It
  worth the money you pay to go there. The entrance to the pedestal is
  still a puzzle for me. I got it the second time I went but not the
  first, I don't know why. I would recommend you to ask for it or do
  some research before. If you want to go to the crown of the statue,
  you have to reserve it beforehand.
+ **Transit museum**: I really like steam engines and the whole
  history about trains. The transit museum has a lot to tell about the
  NYC subway. It was really nice to understand why the subway work
  that way.
+ **Natural history musuem**: The first time I went there, I was one
  of the first visitors to enter and left when the museum was
  closing. It's a big place with so many amazing things to see. I
  would recommend going there early and going straight to the
  dinosaurs room because it's the most crowded. After that you can
  enjoy the museum on your own pace.
+ **Morgan Library**: I may be a bit biased because I went there for a
  exposition about J.R.R Tolkien

And here are some that were good but I'm not sure if I would go again:

+ Ellis Island

### New York city pass?

It's not my kind of travel (I didn't buy it) but does it worth the money? Maybe.

I usually choose the places I want to visit first and then I look into
the prices. People who buy the New York city pass tend (trying to
avoid generalizations, it's according to my sample size) to do the
opposite. They look into the city pass, read about the attractions
there and go visit them.

The transit museum, that is in my "must see" list is not part of the
city pass. The Natural History museum is pay what you want, so you may
not consider the full price (but at least $10 is worth sparing, it's a
great museum).


## Places to eat

_(if you really care about food, skip this part because I don't. This
list is for those who just like me wants a list of places to not have
to care about looking for places to eat)._

I went mostly to quick lunchs, so you will see fast foods most of the
time here. I usually don't eat at big and known places like McDonalds,
Burger King, etc. but I look for places where I can quickly eat
something and go to the next location.

+ **Shakeshack**: There are many of them and the burger is good enough
+ **Fresh??**: Good place if you want quickly eat some
