---
title: "Paris"
date: 2023-01-21
skip_feed: true
---

In January 2023, my team at Doist had a meeting in Paris, so I scheduled one
week before the meeting to be a tourist in Paris. What I'm writing below is a
combination of the time I had as a tourist with my wife **and** the places we
visited before/after work.

## Stay

In the first week I stayed with my wife on **Hotel Louvre Richelieu**. It's a 3
star hotel close to the louvre. We liked the place, it's exactly what we needed
to enjoy our time as a couple in Paris. We got lucky to find a Brazilian girl
as the receptionist as soon as I arrived and we got a bunch of great tips. She
even drafted a schedule for us and recommended places to eat (thanks Hanna!).
Amazing experience. I would totally recommend this place.

In the second week, my team booked two Airbnb's from the same company. They are
colled **Urban stay in Paris**. I wouldn't recommend this one. The neighborhood
is nice (close to the Sebastopol station) with nice options of restaurants and
cafes nearby, but the place itself if far from perfect. The crew is OK-ish (the
have kind of an office right next to it), but when we compare with the previous
one, they are far behind.

## Airport

I went to the main airport, Charles de Gaule (CDG). It's a nice airport, I have
no problems to report. It was not very confusing to understand the transport to
Paris from there, we just had to ask. I got money from an ATM quite easily too.

When going back home, I arrived a bit earlier and quite enjoyed the places they
have between the gates. Had the chance to play street fighter II with a random
guy from Hong Kong üòÄ. They have some arcades and PS5 between the gates K at
the time of this writing.

I usually look for lounges now that my credit cards gives me access to them,
and CDG doesn't seem to be a good place for these things. The only one I found
was quite far from the K gates and doesn't offer much more than places to rest.

## Transport

If you're planning on staying one week in Paris, I would totally recommend you
to use the weekly Navigo card. At the time of this writing, it costs 30EUR from
Monday to Sunday. Apparently, you can't buy it on Sunday, which was our case,
so we had to pay ~12EUR to get from CDG to Paris. If it's not your case, you
can pay 30EUR, get the weekly card and use it from the airport to Paris and
back. The card works weekly for almost any transport inside the city. Even for
he funicular and for Versailles.

If you just want to use the metro a few times inside the city, you can buy
10tickets in one go and it's going to be less expensive.

The card requires your picture in it, but you can ask the hotel to just copy
your passport and use the same picture.

If you don't want the card, you can use this on Android and just use its NFC
capabilities everywhere.

## Places

### Eiffel tower

The most known monument in the world, it's totally worth visiting. I went on
the winter, so I was not able to go to the top floor. They say even the second
floor is quite cold, so I decided to just skip it and find a different place to
have a top view of the city. I want one with the view of the tower. You can't
see the tower when you are in it. :)

I would totally recommend to go to the Trocadero station and start your visit
from there. The view is amazing.

The tower lights up with a different illumination 5 mins every hour (18:00 to
18:05, 19:00 to 19:05, etc.), so prepare yourself for ths if you want to see it
at night.

### Palais Garnier (Opera)

The biggest Opera in Europe and the place that inspired the Phantom of the
Opera. It was an interesting visit, especially when you're planning to visit
the D'orsay museum, as it has a complement to it.

### Arms museum (Invalides)

I'm very into armors, shields, maces, swords, and stuff like that. I usually
visit any museum that may have such a thing. This is one of them. They have a
nice collection that goes from the sword/shiweld/mace times until the present
times. I was able to see a temporary exposition about army intelligence. I'm
not a big fan of modern armies though.

This is the place that holds the ashes of Napoleon too.

### D'Orsay museum

Nice art museum. It was a train station in the past and you can totally see
this in its architecture. They have a small structure that shows the complete
architecture of the Opera and it's amazing. I also enjoyed the view of the caf√©
behind the clock in the upper floor. Didn't have coffee there because it was
too expensive, though.

### Catacombs of Paris

I was looking for this experience and it was worth it. You can only walk in one
specific path of the catacombs, but it's still nice to see it. The audioguide
explaining the whole story is a great complement to the visit.

### Louvre musuem

The Louvre is **huge**! I had the chance to go there twice and it enjoyed both
visits. The Janconda (Mona Lisa) is the most famous one, but there are some
amazing paintings there. Some of them are 10m wide!

They have the foundations of the Louvre in the underground, from the times it
was still a fortress. I really liked this part and the story of the building
itself.

### Pantheon

The place where many important minds of our time were buried. Voltaire,
Braille, Marie curie, etc.

They also have a very big pendulum which serves as a scientific experiment to
show the influence of earth's rotation over the movement. It's quite cool.

### Saint Sulpice

Me and my wife are into Dan Brown stories, so we wanted to visit places
mentioned in the Da Vinci code. This is one of them. I really liked the church.
The part that is mentioned in the Da Vinci code is a scientific study that is
cool to see and read about. You can see the real thing and remember the
fictional version. üòÖ

### Versailles

I went on the winter, so it's not that nice as it should be on spring or
autumn, but I still quite enjoyed it. It's weird to think that one family would
be the owner of that whole thing.

It's not close to Paris. Expect to spend one full day there as you will spend 2
hours on transport on that day and the thing is huge.

The visits to the small palace and the big one are worth it. Walking through
the gardens to get there is a nice experience, even in the winter if you're
lucky to not get any rain. 

### Petit palace

The Grand Palace was closed for renovations (winter ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è), but we had the
chance to visit the Petit palace. The entrance is free and I think it's worth
visiting. Nothing outstanding alone, but the whole is quite nice.


## Food

I always do a disclamer here because I'm not very into finding good food in
places. I mostly ask for some recommendations and then eat whatever is easy and
not expensive after this. I'm going to add here the places I went and the ones
that people recommended me to go.

### Le chalet savoyard

This one was definitely the jewel of this whole trip in term of food. I had the
chance to go there twice, so I had the Raclette and the Foundue. They were both
amazing, I can't recommend this place enough. It's not that cheap but totally
worth it.

Be sure to reserve it because the locals pack it full quite fast.

### Birdy burger

This is a nice place we found when we were hungry. A small place, friendly
staff, tasty burger, and not very expensive. I would totally go there again.

### Creperie da pontivy

We had a Galette there (salty crepe) that was very good. Got a crepe as dessert
and enjoyed it too. We had to split a crepe for two because the Galette was too
much.

### joyeux

A nice place for a good coffee.

### Higuma

It is near the Richelieu hotel and has some good dumplings. It's not a fancy
place, but the dumplings were great and there usually a line at the door, so
it's usually a good sign. üòâ


## Coworking

While in Paris, we got a coworking for our meetings. We stayed at the **Imagine
office** coworking and the experience was nice. Nothing to complain.
