+++
title = "Choosing my first car"
date = 2023-02-06
tags = [
    "english",
]
+++

I don't really care about cars, but I had to buy one and I'm going to describe
the process I used to find the one.

## The Why

Until my 30's, I couldn't care less about cars. I didn't know the brands that
well, didn't like discussing them, and had no plans to have one. To me it was
just a sink where you would throw money in maintenance and insurance.

I have a motorcycle for many years and I really prefer it as a way of
transportation. It's cheaper, it's faster (considering the high traffic of the
city I was living in), I felt like being part of the environment (instead of
locked inside something cursing other people doing the same), I was part of a
bikers group and traveled to many places in the past, etc.

Well, then I had twins and a motorcycle just doesn't fit my life anymore. I
still have one as a secondary transport, but I can't just rely on it. Public
transport (which means buses, in my case) with two babies is not really
something I would like to experience if I have the chance to skip it.

With that said, it was time to buy a car. ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

I have driver's licence for motorcycles and cars since my 20's, but never
really drove cars because I disliked and didn't see a reason to do so.

## The how

I had no idea about what car to buy, so I started asking people. My uncle works
in his car repair shop for 30 years, and I really value his opinions.

I asked him what car I should buy, considering that I just want something that
works and do not give me headaches with maintenance. He was an owner of a Honda
Fit for 10 years, he said it's probably the most reliable car he ever had and
it's mostly the case with all Honda vehicles we have in Brazil. It's a bit more
expensive, but worth the cost (in his words, and now mine).

Well, that was convincing. I just removed all other brands from my list and I'm going for **Honda**.

I promised myself I would never buy new, as it's a waste of money for those who
are not very into cars. So I did some research on what would be a good year
range. My research gave me results on **3-5 years** old cars, which is right
between people are considering not doing the official maintenance and the
warranty is almost over (usually 3 years). People who like cars are usually
getting a new one at this point too, so you usually get a car that is nice and
with a good price.

I checked the models I had with Honda:

* Honda Fit
* Honda HR-V
* Honda Civic
* Honda City

I really like Fit, but not enough trunk for 2 babies when travelling. HR-V
looks OK, but too expensive. Civic is also OK, but it's overpriced (IMO). Honda
**Honda City looks enough for all my needs**. Mostly the same mechanics of
Honda Fit (according to my uncle).

Now that I had the type in mind, I would have to choose the model. There are a few of them:

* Honda City 1.4 EXL
* Honda City 1.4 EX
* Honda City 1.4 LX

LX is the cheapest, but it's not the one I want. EXL was the most expensive and
I really don't need the extras. **Honda City EX was mostly everything I needed.**

Now I know exactly what I'm looking for: **Honda City EX, Black, 2015+, 2017 preferred**.

With that in mind, I just did some research to find the price range of what I
wanted and started visiting places. I went with a friend who likes cars, as I
really didn't know any places and wanted someone else to try the car for me,
otherwise I would totally blindly buy one.

Doing this whole research prior to effectively looking for the car improved the
situation a lot. I knew exactly what I was looking for when visiting places. I
knew exactly what the model had to deliver and the average price. 

While searching, a ton of sellers tried to push things that just weren't what
they are saying. I can't evaluate other models, but for this model in
particular, I knew everything I had to know.

Decided to not buy from someone directly as the risk would be even higher.
Found a reputable place with the model I wanted, negotiated the price and
bought it. A Honda city EX 2017, 20000 km.

Asked my friend to help me with some driving lessons since it was more than 10
years since my last driving üòÖ. After that, it just took time to get used to
it. I'm currently a happy owner since 2020.
