+++
title = "Rustlang and me"
tags = [
  "rust",
  "english",
]
+++

Sometimes I'm kindly mentioned by people when there's a topic about Rust going
on. I decided to create this page so I could share a bit of my relationship
with Rust in one single place ðŸ¦€.


## Books

I'm the co-author of [Rust â€” ConcorrÃªncia e alta performance com
seguranÃ§a](https://www.casadocodigo.com.br/products/livro-rust). A book written
in pt-BR, which covers the basics a programmer needs to know to start his
journey with the language.


## Community

### Rust LATAM

I was one of the main organizers of [Rust LATAM
2019](https://www.rustlatam.org), the biggest conference dedicated to Rust in
Latin America at the time (probably, still the biggest until 2023).

The plan was to have an itinerant conference in LATAM, starting in Uruguay. We
were organizing the second edition in Mexico City when the pandemic started,
which mostly put the project on hold indefinitely.

## Rust-SP

I'm still the main organizer of the Rust community in SÃ£o Paulo (since 2017).
We do local meetups from time to time. We try to keep the plan of having one
once a quarter. :)


## The Rust language

I still have plans to contribute the to language itself. I [started this
process](/rust-contrib) some time ago and did a very small contribution, but
couldn't find enough spare time for extra work to keep it going.

Hopefully, I will be able to find that time at some point.

If you want to contribute to the language, that post may be a good first step.
You can always [contact me](/about) if you need pointers (actually, references!
ðŸ¦€).


## Lives and podcasts

I had the chance to participate in some podcasts and lives, mostly in pt-BR,
and some of them about Rust.

There's no specific page about Rust here, but you can browse the whole list in
my [media](/media) page.


## Talks

I'm speaking for a long time now (almost 15 years!), and I've been speaking a
bit about Rust in the past 5 years (both in English and pt-BR). 

You can see the whole list of talks on my [talks](/talks) page. They are quite
easy to find, you just have to search by `Rust` ðŸ™‚.
