+++
title = "Oxford for Tolkien fans"
aliases = ["2017/03/08/oxford-for-tolkien-fans.html"]
date = "2017-03-10"
tags = ["travel","english"]
categories = "travel"
+++

**TL;DR**: When traveling to Europe, I decided to take 2 or 3 days to visit
Oxford. I will describe how was the experience of a J.R.R. Tolkien fan there.

I'm a big fan of J.R.R Tolkien. Have read most of his books, the ones released
when he was still alive and other edited by Christopher Tolkien.

After attending [FOSDEM](http://fosdem.org) I decided to travel around some
countries in Europe and UK. The most expensive part, the airplane tickets from
Brazil to Belgium, were already paid, so... why not? :)

The last step of this journey would be London. Then I realized: "Why not to
visit Oxford?". It's a historical city and Tolkien himself wrote most part of
his books there. So I got there by couch, oxfordbus from Heathrow to Oxford
centre and used Airbnb for 2 nights.

Keep in mind that everything closes really early. I got there 4pm and could not
do anything more. I tried to visit the Bodleian Library, but it was closing. All
colleges were closed. The only thing to do is to look for a place to eat.

The first stop was Eagle and Child. This was the pub where the Inklings met once
a week in the morning. For those who don't know the Inklings, it was a small
group which J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis were members. They used to talk about
his books in these meetings. The lord of the rings had their first drafts showed
in this pub, probably. It's a good place to eat, I liked it.

I had lucky to be there in a Wednesday, they have extended tours around the
Bodleian Library and Radcliff camera on Wednesdays and Saturdays. There were
some good stories about it, but I found that I can't see any of the Tolkien's
manuscripts or original materials. In order to get access to it you have to have
the Readers card. To have this card, you have to pay and justify *why* you need
to have access to the manuscripts. So... No manuscripts for me.

The guide of the Bodleian Library do not know anything about Tolkien there, just
the old stories about the Radcliff camera and the Bodleian Library. It was
expensive but worth the price.

I went to the Weston Library, where they have a treasury room with a free
exposition. There I found a original drawing from Tolkien. But the other
manuscripts were already removed because they are planning to close this
exposition (as they said...).

Tolkien was a teacher at Merton College, you have to pay £4 to enter there if
you want to. After asking about Tolkien places to visit, I found that none of
the places I would like to visit are opened to the public.

From the inside I could see (through the gate...) the rounded table that may
have inspired the meeting that created the fellowship of the ring.

![fellowship of the ring]()

I got this picture thanks to my 55-250mm lens, but it is not so close from the
gate and you have to be a Merton associate (or something like that) to enter
there. But is still a good place to visit.

I decided to visit Magdalen College (£5) to walk in the "???? walk" where the
Inklings talked about religion and where C.S Lewis was converted to
Christianity. Unfortunately, the wind was making some threes to fall down and
they had to close the place for security reasons. But this is the place:

![photo of the ??? walk]()

There was a exposition in the old library of the Magdalen College and it was
cool to see the old books. From the times they still had chains in the shelves. :)

There is a good place to find Tolkien books, in case you're interested. Go to
???? and find the shelf dedicated to J.R.R Tolkien.

In the last day, I decided to go to the cemetery where Tolkien was buried. It's
not so far, but almost 1 hour walking. There are some buses that take you there
easily, just go to the bus station near the train station to get information. I
like to walk around the cities I visit, so we went there walking.

![tolkien tombstone]()

It's a simple tombstone, nothing spectacular, but I'm glad to get there.

Then we came back walking and passed in front of the house he lived with his
family for some time.

![house of Tolkien]()

There are many of those blue signs in houses from famous people in UK. This is
for J.R.R Tolkien.

### Other things around Oxford

You're already in Oxford, so I recommend you to visit the Blenheim Palace. It's
expensive £23 (go by bus and buy the tickets on the bus because it's cheaper
than buying there) but worth the price. It's not the Highclere Castle from
Downton Abbey, but some rooms were made me think about it. :)

Walk around the Carfax Tower and the Oxford castle. I liked both structures. The
interesting part about the Carfax Tower is that it is there since 900 a.c. :)

The architecture for all colleges is really impressive, just walk around them if
you like it. I'm a big fan of there kinds of architectures, so I enjoyed walking
around them and taking pictures (yes, I like photography too!).

### Conclusion about my Tolkien Tour

I was expecting to see more materials from Tolkien. There were no expositions
about him, the only thing I saw was a drawing. I know that all (or at least,
many) of his manuscripts are available at the Bodleian Library, but they're not
accessible.

The city places do not use the fact that Tolkien lived there as touristic
attraction. The only place referencing Tolkien was the Eagle and Child.

But Oxford is a good city to visit. There is a lot of history there. I just
recommend you, J.R.R. Tolkien fan, to align your expectations with what is
there.
