+++
tags = [
  "english",
]
aliases = [
  "writing.html",
  "writing",
]
title = "Desconstruindo a web"
+++


[![desconstruindo a web](/images/writing/desconstruindoaweb_book.jpg)](https://desconstruindoaweb.com.br)

I wrote desconstruindo a web in 2016 and my goal was to help web developers to
understand the whole cycle of their application, from the initial keystroke to
the loaded page.

It's important to understand all the pieces involved in a web request so we can
better debug problems happening in this process. The internet is a complex
system and many parts can fail, knowing the purpose of each is quite useful
when something goes wrong.

The whole writing process (research, drawing, writing, publishing, etc.) took
me 315 houurs. I wrote about this process [here](/desconstruindoaweb) in pt-BR
(with automatic translation to English).

At the moment of this writing, this book bought by almost 1500 people and [has
the highest review between the books of my publisher with more than 50
reviews](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/27871094?sort=num_ratings) (5
star average with 1 review doesn't count ðŸ˜›), which makes me quite happy.

------------------

## Reviewer for other books

I love writing and I'm involved in other books and articles other than my own
book and this blog. I will list ome of them here.

### Rust book: Main tech reviewer

[![Rust book](/images/writing/rust_book.jpg)](https://www.casadocodigo.com.br/products/livro-rust)

I was the main tech reviewer for the Rust book, written by [Marcelo
Castellani](https://twitter.com/mfcastellani). I had the chance to co-write
this book with him but I didn't have the time to dedicate to the project, so I
just did the technical review. The book is great for those who want a simple
and easy-to-read Rust book in pt-BR.

### Rails book: One of the tech reviewers

![book](/images/writing/rubyonrails_book.jpg)

I was one of the tech reviewers for this book in 2012. The book was written by
[Vinicius Baggio](https://twitter.com/vinibaggio) using Rails 3. It was being
sold there for many years but did not receive many updates, which cause it to
be removed from the store in 2018 approximately.

### Semantic web book: One of the book reviewers

[![book](/images/writing/websemantica_book.jpg)](https://www.casadocodigo.com.br/products/livro-web-semantica)

I was one of the reviewers for this book written by [Diego
Eis](https://diegoeis.com). I'm not a tech reviewer here because semantic web
is not a topic I'm deeply experienced with, but I was able to contribute with
book writing experience and didactics.

### HTML game development hotshot: One of the tech reviewers

[![book](/images/writing/html5_book.jpg)](https://www.packtpub.com/game-development/html5-game-development-hotshot)

I was approached by PacketPub to review this book as a HTML5 game development
specialist when I was working on my HTML5 games. The book is written by
[Makzan](https://www.packtpub.com/books/info/authors/makzan) and uses CreateJS
to show HTML5 game development in practice.

## Articles published outside of this blog

I was also invited to write articles for other blogs which I respect and/or
have a good reach. I will list here some of them.

### The game loop: Gamedev tuts+

[![book](/images/writing/gameloop_article.jpg)](https://gamedevelopment.tutsplus.com/articles/gamedev-glossary-what-is-the-game-loop--gamedev-2469)

An article that explains how the Game loop works in game development. It was
written for gamedev.tutsplus.com in Nov 2012.

### Client side prediction: Gamedev tuts+

[![book](/images/writing/clientsideprediction_article.jpg)](https://gamedevelopment.tutsplus.com/articles/gamedev-glossary-what-is-client-side-prediction--gamedev-3849)

Article that explains how client side pretiction works in game development.
Wrote for gamedev.tutsplus.com in Jan 2013.

### Audiobooks: Locaweb blog

{{< image src="/images/writing/audiobooks_article.png" alt="audiobooks" position="center" >}}

A pt-BR article about how audiobooks can change your "reading" life forever.
It's mostly what I've written [here](/audiobooks) too.

### Quantified self: Doist blog + Quartz at work

[![book](/images/writing/quantifiedself_article.png)](https://blog.doist.com/quantified-self-apps/)

I used all the my knowledge tracking myself for more than one year to write
down all the tools available to use for those who want to quantify themselves.

This post was originally posted at the Doist blog and then at Quartz at work.
