+++
title = "2020 Year in Review"
date = 2021-02-19
draft = true
tags = [
    "stats",
    "personal",
    "english",
]
series = ["Stats"]
toc = true
+++

**Brace yourselves, like any other stats post, this one will be HUGE**

If you're following my blog, you know that I sometimes mentioned things were too
hard and I couldn't sit down and write. Looking back now, I have a good laugh
for my past self. ‚ò∫Ô∏è

I can say for sure that 2020 was a complicated year and **a lot** of things
changeg in my life. The biggest change is that I'm now a father of twins. I
still remember when a colleague mentioned: "I'm curious to see how your metrics
post will be next year". Well, I'm curious too, so let's see.

## Average day

I'd like to start with what an average day is to me according to
[Exist.io](https://exist.io/?referred_by=pothix) because it feels like a TL;DR
of this post:

[![A list of data showing how a day works. Starts with a sleep of 7 hours and a half, 3 hours and a half of productive time, 11 tracks, 1 tweet, 2 hours of distracting time, almost 9 thousand steps, an average of 4 for my rating and going to sleep at 11h30](/images/stats/2020/yir/exist-average-day.png "My day according to Exist")](/images/stats/2020/yir/exist-average-day.png "")

There's one thing I'm certain about this: I'm not weighting 78.1kg. üòÇ I
probably forgot to add my weight to mi-fit this year because the gym is not a
reality anymore.

## Books

[![Year in books from Goodreads. Shows "On the shortness of life" as the shortest book and "Homo Deus" as the longest one. "The power of habit" is the most popular book. I read 6291 pages across 25 books this year](/images/stats/2020/yir/goodreads-year-in-books-logo.png "My year in books by Goodreads")](https://www.goodreads.com/pothix "")

I had a much smaller goal this year. Instead of setting ~30 books, I just set 10
because I was sure my year would be totally different than anything I was used
to. There was also the feeling that having goals were influencing my choice of
books to read, so I wanted to try something different.

I'm glad to meet the modest mark of 10 books this year. It was not stressful and
quite easy to reach the goal. I will probably do the same for 2021, if I read
more than that (I don't think it's going to happen), it would be better than
having a bigger goal and not be able to accomplish it.

You can see my 2020 Goodreads challenge
[here](https://www.goodreads.com/challenges/11621-2020-reading-challenge). :)

I used [Google keep](https://keep.google.com) to take notes of all the books I
read until the end of 2020 and I'm now using [Roam
research](https://roamresearch.com) for that. All my notes are being
consolidated there. Every time I finish a book, I review my notes and post them
along with a review on Goodreads and on this blog. The plan is to migrate all my
reviews here so I can own my content again.

If you want to see the reviews I already migrated, check the
[books](/tags/books) out. If you see I didn't migrate all the titles yet, you
can always look for my whole [list of books read in
2020](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/38970458-willian-molinari?read_at=2020)
on Goodreads.

Here are some stats provided by Goodreads comparing all the books I
have registered:

[![A list by year with progress bars. The biggest one is from 2017, the second is 2018, and 2020 is the third one most filled](/images/stats/2020/yir/goodreads.png "List of books read by year")](https://www.goodreads.com/pothix "")

I can see now that I'm reducing the number of books I'm reading every year, but
I don't think I should be concerned about that. The number should not surpass
the quality of books and how much I'm applying what I learn.

One of my concerns was related to the quality on my reviews. In 2018 I had a lot
of 3 star reviews, so I tried to improve my picks in 2019 and got some
improvements. Let's see how was 2020:

[![The years of 2020, 2019, and 2018 and their book ratings by me](/images/stats/2020/yir/goodreads-details.png "Comparison between 2018, 2019, and 2020")](https://www.goodreads.com/pothix "")

Things are much better! For the first time I have more 5 star reviews than 4
stars! ü§© This is one of the reasons why I love to have metrics, they help me
realize what I've been doing and improve üí™.

As it happened last year, but after writing this section I'm feeling even better
about the number of books I read this year and their quality.

## Articles

The articles section for this year will be quite interesting because I decided
to migrate my articles from Pocket to Todoist. I found I had a lot of things on
Pocket that were worth reading but some others and didn't make sense anymore
(e.g. the macroeconomic news of 2017).

When I used the same old script I used for the previous year, the result was
quite... interesting:

In 2020, I had **484 articles unread and 3091 articles read** compared with 2019
that I had **1908 articles unread and 1731 articles read**, it's quite a
difference.

It doesn't mean that I read 1500 articles this year (Exist says I read 996
articles), but at least I'm sure there were 500+ garbage articles there.

When checking my Todoist project, I can see I have **149 completed tasks there**
and I can trust this value now. ‚úÖ

The result of this metric is not very good because I messed up with my numbers.
Let's consider I read 149 articles this year, it's not that bad compared to the
275 I read last year, but the number is decreasing every year. Let's see what is
going to happen in 2021.

## Coding

All my coding metrics are provided by
[Wakatime](https://wakatime.com/i/PotHix). When we have a light blue bar inside
a dark blue one, it means the light one is the global average and the dark one
is the top coder. We should usually focus on the **light blue part of the bar**.

First, let's take a look at the total time coding:

[![Coding stats for this year. I logged 313 hours and my best day was March 21](/images/stats/2020/yir/wakatime-coding-total.png "Total time coding this year")](https://wakatime.com/@PotHix "")

My daily average this year is even lower than the 1h16 per day I got in 2019,
which looks really low for me. I'm still above the average, but 51 mins on
average is a bit weird üòê. The only thing that makes me feel better here is that
I'm not the only one who had its time decreased, it seems to be a general thing.

[Last year](/2019/) I said I was going to tweak the parameters on Wakatime but I
didn't do that. It seems I should give this a try now to see if it better adapts
to my programming style. ü§î

[![Projects followed by their progress bars](/images/stats/2020/yir/wakatime-projects-total.png "Total time coding by project this year")](https://wakatime.com/@PotHix "")

It's nice to see that I dedicated 50+ hours to this blog. I just had a
conversation about this on Twitter and it really takes time to create something
great. I did a good revamp here and improved the content a lot. I'm proud of
what I created here.

The [twist-rs](https://github.com/PotHix/twist-rs) is an experiment of a
multi-language library I was doing using Rust. Nothing production ready, but it
was part of a "Personal DO" at Doist, where I could research anything I wanted
and may be useful for the company.

I dedicated only 22 hours to this blog, compared to 80+ hours in 2017. I would
like to improve this, but I'm not sure if it will be a priority, unfortunately.

Most of my time was developing the Todoist REST API written in Golang, which is
nice to see here. I'm still working on [Todoist](https://todoist.com) but in a different repository now.

I still keep the same freelance job I have for more than 5 years now. It became
almost a personal project for me. The good part of working for them is that the
work is just coding and mostly fixing bugs. I just need to sit down and write some
code.

I'm certain that I worked more than 18 hours during the year, that's the main
reason why I have to tune Wakatime. I usually don't work much for them because I
don't have that much time to spare anymore, but 1.5 hour a month is certainly
not right.

I liked to see [awesome-dactyl](https://github.com/PotHix/awesome-dactyl) and
`qmk_firmware` here. It means I dedicated some time to my custom keyboards
hobbies this year. ‚å®

[![Total time by OS and editors. The top coder has a very big progress bar while mine is 20% of that](/images/stats/2020/yir/wakatime-editors-total.png "Total time coding by editor and OS this year")](https://wakatime.com/@PotHix "")

I'm just using Linux, so it's expected to have it here. I'm using it much more
than the average as we can see. The "top coder" is an outlier for sure. üòú

In 2019 I was transitioning back to Vim from Emacs and now the transition is
fuly done. It's been a while since I don't open Emacs. I still miss Magit, but
other than that, life is good on the Vim side.

[![A list of 4 languages along with their progress bars. Dark blue is very long and light blue very small](/images/stats/2020/yir/wakatime-languages-total.png "Total time coding by language this year")](https://wakatime.com/@PotHix "")

It's very funny to see Markdown as the most used language this year. OK, I
write a lot in markdown, but it shouldn't be "my most used programming language"
üòÇ.

I believe it's all related to the way Wakatime tracks things and the way I deal
with this. When I'm writing specs or blog posts, I just sit down in front of a
text editor and write. When I'm writing code there's much more research and
testing involved and I believe it makes all the different for Wakatime tracking.

It was weird to see **Python** as the last in this list (the list is actually
much longer, but I decided to cut it there) because **Python** is currently the
primary language at Doist for the backend team. I'm not part of the backend team
anymore and it may have its effects. Have it below Ruby was certainly strange.
ü§î

Go as the first programming language was expected. I spent most of the previous
year maintaining a Golang API. ‚ò∫Ô∏è

I'm so happy to see Rust there, even knowing it's not a language I'm using at
work, but it means I gave it the attention I wanted. ‚ù§Ô∏è

## Speaking

OMG, speaking! üòÖ 2020 was so crazy that I can't even talk about speaking that
much. I still maintain my [talks page](/talks) and I'm going to use it as a
reference here.

+ **In 2020, I spoke 2 times, one in English and the other in Portuguese. One
  internal (for Doist) and the other for the Future of Work Brasil conference**

Not much difference from 2019 and we had a pandemic this time. The only
difference is that I did both presentations online, which is something I'm not
used to. I love to be in conferences and doing things online is just a bit sad.

In 2020 we were organizing Rust LATAM again, this time it would be in Mexico but
we decided to cancel the conference as soon as the WHO declared the pandemic.
Being an international conference organizer in the middle of a pandemic is very
tough. We were able to cancel everything without major problems thanks to the
Rust community and Mozilla. I'm not sure I'm going to participate in any such
adventure as the main organizer again.

I decided to collaborate with Rustfest global this year, but I was mostly a
spectator and helper with anything related to Rust LATAM than a real organizer.


## Completed tasks

Every year Todoist releases an astonishing Year in review. Here is mine from
[2017](https://todoist.com/review/2017/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJqdGkiOiJ1QWNKZHhCQyIsInVpZCI6NTA1NDQ0MywieWVhciI6MjAxN30.zJQ9q-v1pyL1HwerqktZyNMLSwC7RxC0CKHUNdkoZQI),
[2018](https://todoist.com/review/2018/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJqdGkiOiJFaklzQ3BBeiIsInVpZCI6NTA1NDQ0MywieWVhciI6MjAxOH0.2EMtZYiOkn8QjLUZjfgccy5ZUyfYtV5uGHfGgDSU1lQ),
[2019](https://todoist.com/review/2019/eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ1aWQiOjUwNTQ0NDMsInllYXIiOjIwMTksImp0aSI6Inp2ak95WHNsIn0.1AJBbnu1cQ8l9N7HUgDCMZmGfPVjHntgdStdRW7IA8M),
and now
[2020](https://todoist.com/review/2020/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJqdGkiOiJmeU1mckJqdSIsInVpZCI6NTA1NDQ0MywieWVhciI6MjAxOX0.HwRgJULd8lDN6FjCC5tcrMYVegrXQCk_X6D713bV14E),
which is the one we're going to explore.

Now that I work for Doist, everything I say here will be considered as the
default because "I have to say good things about the company I work", but what
I'm saying here I really mean it and I would certainly say that if I was not
working for Doist.

What the team does is incredible. My jaw dropped when I saw the year in review.
The attention to details and the perpective of the world in such a difficult and
unpredictable scenario is just amazing.

With that said, let's check my Todoist tasks! üôÇ

[![A text saying I completed 4938 tasks in 2020. An average of 13 tasks per day.](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-completed.png "Tasks completed on my Todoist account")](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-completed.png "")

4938 tasks is much less than 2019, when I completed 6198 tasks. I believe this
happened because I decided to remove some scheduling tasks I was maintaining
before. It was so predictable that I mentioned this last year. üòâ

The day I complete the most is on **Thursday**, not Friday anymore as it happened last year:

[![Tasks completed by weekday on my Todoist account. I complete an average of 17 completed tasks every Thursday](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-completed-by-weekday.png "Tasks completed by weekday on my Todoist account")](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-completed.png "")

**My most productive time is 10:00**, it did not change compared to 2019. This
makes sense since [I'm a third bird and feel more productive in the
morning](/productivity-workflow).

It's nice to see I'm consistent using Todoist to manage my tasks:

[![Many small squares filled in scales of gray regarding the tasks I completed by day on my Todoist account](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-completed-by-day.png "Tasks completed by day on my Todoist account")](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-completed-by-day.png "")

I'm still one of the 1% heavy users of Todoist! üòÉ The image also shows that I'm
a Grand Master close to become Enlightened. I'm writing this post in February,
so I'm Enlightened already. ‚ú®

[![Orange background with some spheres. The text says I have 11069 karma points and I'm one of the top 1% users of Todoist](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-top-1.png "Top 1% user of Todoist")](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-top-1.png "")

Seeing the data I found interesting patterns. The first one is that I don't care
much about the karma streaks, I just ignore them. My logest streak was 2 weeks
üòÖ.

The majority of my completed tasks were not priority ones:

[![Three horizontal bars with the percentage of priority tasks.](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-priorities.png "Percentage of tasks by priority")](/images/stats/2020/yir/tasks-priorities.png "")

This is something I want to improve this year. I want to use the priorities
better. üí°

## Podcasts

[![Print screen of an Android phone showing a set of stats from the Podcast Addict app. It's empty.](/images/stats/2020/yir/podcasts-time.jpg "Time listening to Podcasts this year")](/images/stats/2020/yir/podcasts-time.jpg "")

The image speaks by itself. I decided to reset my cellphone this year and didn't
even care to backup the data I had because there was not much to backup.

Without going for a walk with the dog every day in the morning and without my
daily gym workout there's not much space for podcasts and audiobooks anymore.
I'm doing my best to keep [audiobooks](/audiobooks) going, but it's hard to
prioritize podcasts.

This year, there's not much to show here but I stil want to keep the section.
Hopefully, next year things will be better. ü§û


## Hours working, focusing and distractions

Let's start checking all my data tracked using [Toggl](https://toggl.com):

[![A bar chart for the year of 2020. They look similar in general but with changes in different months.](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-total-time-comparison.png "Chart for time working in my full-time job")](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-total-time.png "")

Comparing to the last year, I have much less hours tracked this year. In the
past year I had 3 bars touching 255h and this year there's not even 255h in the
chart.

Let's check my time working, considering my full-time job only:

[![Bar chart for the year of 2020. The average seems to be around 150 hours. There's a list of categories at the bottom showing, deep work, meeting, and shallow work](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-total-time-fulltime-job.png "Chart for time working in my full-time job")](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-total-time.png "")

It's interesting too see that charts didn't change much for my main job. It
means just just had to de-prioritize anything outside of my work.

June is empty because it was the month when my babies left the ICU (yeah, they
spent 40 days there, tough times, topic for a different post) and came home.
That was when my paternity leave started. I decided to take one month of or
paternity leave and then spread the rest of my time throughout the year.

It's much harder this year to get to a good math about how many hours in average
I'm working every day. I try to have at least 8 hours of work every day and this
year it's even harder to overwork because there are many creatures deserving
attention at home now and there's not time to overwork.

**I spent 87 hours of my year in meetings**, which is 6 hours more than I did
last year.  Most of them were weekly sync meetings with my remote team and also
a monthly 1-on-1 with the head of my team.  I consider most of those meetings
productive, maybe not the checkins but this is something to consider and raise
the flag if they don't feel productive. I like the way people see those things,
it's not blingdly doing meetings because it "is the right way to do it".

The most interesting part for me is the Shallow x Deep work ratio. I can see
things improved since last year. Last year I realized I had
almost 3 times less time Deep working than Shallow working but now it seems to
be much better and **close to half of the shallow work as Deep work**.

To give a bit more context, **I consider Deep work any work I can do without
distraction**. Shallow work is the work I do while I have other tabs opened on
my browser or while I'm doing something else on the side.

As I mentioned in my previous review, I keep one freelance job, which feels like
a personal project to me. I like to improve the app and make it better. I don't
have freelance gigs, but this one I'm happy to keep. Here is the time I tracked
about it this year (based on Toggl, not totally accurate):

[![Bar chart. The first half of the year is much better than the second half.](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-freelance.png "Chart for time working in my freelance job")](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-freelance.png "")

Here it's very clear to see when my paternity life started. The life of a new
parent, especially of twins, is tough. Everyone needs attention and you don't
have time for anything. External work, even the one I like to do, had to be
de-prioritized.

The average hours per month is close to 10 last year, much less than I used to
do in the past.

### Productivity data via Rescuetime

Let's check what [rescuetime](https://www.rescuetime.com/ref/1403570) has to say
about my productivity. I'm going to use their [year in
review](https://www.rescuetime.com/year-in-review/2020) to extract metrics.

Let's look at the productive and distracting hours for the entire year:

[![An infographic with information for every month of 2020 in small bars and text about productivity. My productivity pulse is 58](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-yir.png "Rescuetime year in review metrics for 2020")](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-yir.png "")

In December I started configuring my new laptop and rescue time decided to not
report my data for some reason. It will be radio silent in December and January
2021. üòï

I love to see that my productivy pulse incresed for the third year in a row: 51
in 2018, 54 in 2019, and **58 in 2020**. ‚ù§Ô∏è

They also provide a chart with the categories I used the most:

[![A strange-looking chart in a circular format. The lines above go towards the border showing which category I used the most. Communication & scheduling is the most used.](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-yir-by-category.png "Most used categories according to rescuetime")](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-yir-by-category.png "")

I'm usually concerned about the amount of time I spend on communication and
scheduling, which means mostly Telegram and Twist. I'm glad to see that it
decreased from 42% in 2019 to **37% in 2020** üéâ.

The dashboard shows similar information but with some other things:

[![The rescuetime dashboard showing metrics for the entire year. The productivity pulse is 56](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-yir-by-category-dashboard.png "Rescuetime dashboard data for 2020")](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-yir-by-category-dashboard.png "")

The productivity pulse is usually different in the dashboard, I have no idea why ü§∑.

In the beginning of the previous year, I defined some goals in rescuetime but
didn't check them during the year. Looking at them now, it doesn't feel very
good:

[![A chart showing my goal for this year. It was 900 hours and 30 mins in total and 783 all productive time](/images/stats/2020/yir/rescuetime-goals.png "Rescuetime goal chart for the year")](/images/stats/2019/yir/rescuetime-goals.png "")

I should probably set some reasonable goals for this year and follow-up closely.
This will be something to keep an eye this year. üëÄ

In general **I saw good improvement** in my rescuetime productivity data. I'm
glad to be checking it now. I will define some reasonable goals for the next
year üôÇ.

## Music

The [last.fm](https://last.fm) review this year is not as good as the others
from previous years IMO, but let's take a look at it:

[![Everything I scrobbled in 2020, Divided in blocks, lists, and charts.](/images/stats/2020/yir/lastfm-scrobbles.png "Songs scrobbled this year")](/images/stats/2020/yir/lastfm-scrobbles.png "")

Google music was discontinued last year and I'm now using [Youtube
Music](https://music.youtube.com). It's not that good but it's good enough. The
good part is that I now have youtube premium (no more ads!).

I discovered 15% new artists this year. I 'm not very good in discovering new
stuff, I usually listen to the same songs all over again üòÖ. It was nice to see
that YouTube music exposes some YouTube artists as music there, that's how I
started listening to Smooth Mcgroove when working. I love video game music and
Smooth Mcgroove makes 8bit songs singable. üòÉ

Other than that, we have the usual **Black label society** and **Pantera** in
the second and third position there. No news here. ü§ò

It's interesting too see how tags are equaly distributed in that chart. I don't
know if this is good or bad, or even if it means anything ü§î.

In 2019, I listened to more music between 10:00 and 11:00 but **this year it
changed to 18:00 and 19:00**. I believe it's related to the time I'm always done
with work and need that extra boost.

This time I don't have big outliers (as Thursday was last year). The pattern is
the same between days of the week, which makes much more sense. I have no idea
why I scrobbled so much in January of 2019 but it seems much better distributed
this year.

[Exist.io](https://exist.io/?referred_by=pothix) also provided data about the
songs I listened to (via Last.fm):

[![My the top songs played provided by Exist.io](/images/stats/2020/yir/lastfm-exist.png "Songs scrobbled this year")](/images/stats/2020/yir/lastfm-exist.png "")

No news here, basically the same as Last.fm already exposed.

## TV Shows

This was a topic that was not receiving much love in 2019 and it's even worse
now. I'm still keeping it because I have some shows to recommend (maybe I will
even create some special page to recommend TV shows in the near future ü§î) and I
also want to write here how my life changed in the past years regarding TV.

I'm not tracking the TV shows I watch anymore and I'm not even watching that
much to be honest. In the first half of 2019, I took some time to watch some TV
shows with my wife, especially the documentary **Babies** on Netflix. It was
greta to see the scientific studies that led to the pediatric recommendations we
have today.

We also watched a little bit of **Vikings**, which I enjoy a lot, but other than
that, there was not much else to add to the list.

Last year, I said I was checking [TV
time](https://www.tvtime.com/en/user/10615776/profile) because they were
starting to add adding movies to the app, but I'm not even watching movies
anymore and didn't track anything.

More than ever, I'm realizing how 2020 was quite different than other years.

## Physical data

In the previous years I did many things to try to extract data from my miband.
It was usually a combination of a lot of screenshots here and there but this
year I don't have enough time to dedicate to this and I'm going to rely on
[Exist.io](https://exist.io/?referred_by=pothix) for most of my data coming from
miband.

Let's look at [Exist.io](https://exist.io/?referred_by=pothix)'s monthly
averages for steps:

[![A bar chart since July 2019. It shows the average steps by month.](/images/stats/2020/yir/steps-exist.jpg "Average steps by month according to Exist")](/images/stats/2020/yir/steps-exist.jpg "")

This gives me a good idea of how 2020 slowed me down. The whole pandemic thing
kept me at home after March. I decided to not go to the Gym anymore since then
and was not even going for a walk anymore for some months.

I'm now going outside for a walk again, but it's not the same üòï.

We can also see how bad it was when we look into the Google location timeline:

[![Report provided by Google timeline. Shows places I visited, maps, and charts](/images/stats/2020/yir/maps-activity.png "Activity according to Google Maps")](/images/stats/2020/yir/maps-activity.png "")

I would love to say that June was nice because I went out driving (yes, I even
have a car now, it is very useful now) more but it was just like that because I
went to the ICU every day to see how our babies were evolving in the incubator.

### Weight

OK... Weight tracking, where do we start? It was a very bad year for this
matter. I had plans in the beginning of the year to be fit before the babies
were born because I knew it would be quite hard for me to maintain any sort of
exercise routine. My plans did not consider any pandemic, of course.

With no gym, no physical exercise, a breastfeeding wife that can eat anything
without gaining weight (it takes a lot of energy), and a very exhausting routine
to take care of two babies, the result couldn't be good. **I gained more than
10kg last year**. The chart doesn't say much because I didn't have any reason to
keep tracking my weight I just gave up for a while. This is my current (February
2021) weight data:

[![A chart showing how my weight changed across the year.](/images/stats/2020/yir/weight-google-fit.jpg "My weight according to Google Fit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/weight-google-fit.jpg "")
[![Screenshot of the Miband app showing some stats, including my current weight and BMI](/images/stats/2020/yir/weight-miband.jpg "My current weight and BMI according to Mifit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/weight-miband.jpg "")

You may check in [2019](/2019#physical-data) that I was doing great with my gym
routine and had great improvements. All of this is gone already.

Sometimes we have great things to show, sometimes we don't. I'm not an Instagram
model showing the best of myself, I'm doing this to understand what is going on.
This time, things are a bit ugly. It will not be like that forever though, this
is something I want to improve soon. Hopefully, it will be this year, but if
not, it will be 2022.

I just need to have my weight under control instead of always increasing. This
is something I'm going to do in 2021.

### Sleep

This is one of the sections I was very curious to check. As a father of twins,
you can guess I'm not sleeping well enough and it was totally expected.

I had great data from [Sleep as
Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.urbandroid.sleep&hl=en)
last year but this time I don't have it anymore. I didn't take sleep as Android
seriously this year and factory reset my phone at some point. I thought I had
backups for this data but I was only able to restore the data since last
October, which is not very useful for this review.

Let's see what miband has to tell me about this:

[![A screenshot that shows the summary of my sleep data from 2020](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep1.jpg "Sleep information according to Mifit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep1.jpg "")

The average score (whatever this means) is a bit less than the score I reported
last year and there's not much change on the full asleep and woke up time. The
deep sleep is 20 minus less than the reported last year. When looking a gain, I
saw I just reported the image for one month last year, so it's not really
comparable.

[![Bar chart of my sleep data for 2020](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep2.jpg "Sleep data for the current year according to Mifit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep2.jpg "")

The average sleep is less than 7 hours this year, compared to 7h30 last year. It
was much better than I expected to be honest. Maybe it was because the first
half of the year was not that bad.

I sync the same data with Google fit and connect it to
[Exist.io](https://exist.io/?referred_by=pothix). I couldn't get any decent data
from Google Fit, but Exist provides some good averages:

[![Bar chart by month on the Exist app](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep-exist.jpg "Sleep data according to Exist")](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep-exist.jpg "")

I believe averages do not show the whole picture, especially on the situation
I'm in right now. Let's use pick months as examples to see the difference. This
was the situation in **April**:

[![](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep3.jpg "Sleep data for the current year according to Mifit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep3.jpg "")

Which looks pretty good. Now let's compare it with **July**, which was the worst
month in terms of sleeping (when the babies came home from the ICU):

[![](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep4.jpg "Sleep data for the current year according to Mifit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep4.jpg "")

It's quite different üòÖ. Things tend to improve in terms of sleep time (not
quality). Here is the data for **December**:

[![](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep5.jpg "Sleep data for the current year according to Mifit")](/images/stats/2020/yir/sleep5.jpg "")

It's not the best but it's not the worse either. The problem for us is not the
total of sleep but how many times we have to wake up at night and this is hard
to track. Currently, we're waking up ~4 times every night, and it's usually not
tracked.

The chart also shows the avg REM sleep (Rapid Eye Movement), which is something
that comes with the latest version of the miband. üòâ


I expected to have far more Sleep data for this year because I knew things would
be complicated, but I couldn't dedicate that much time improve my tracking. The
current data is not that bad though.

## Locations

This is another depressing topic for 2020. üòû

I had plans to visit **Mexico** (for Rust LATAM), **Singapore** (Doist retreat),
**Swiss** (I would stay 2 days in stop over while going to Singapore),
**Bulgaria** (for a possible mini-retreat of my team), but thanks to the
pandemic, **I went nowhere** üòû.

Here is the summary of the year and all-time data by Google:

[![World map view with pins to the countries I visited](/images/stats/2020/yir/location-general.png "General view of my locations data")](/images/stats/2020/yir/location-general.png "")

It's hard to compare with anything. I visited 18 new cities last year and 1 this
year. The new places I visited this year were all before the pandemic start or
when I my babies were at the ICU and we were spending the whole day at the
hospital, which means we had to go out for lunch.

At least the all time data is still good, it's not so depressing when I got to
the bottom of that report.

## Expenses

I have some sad news about my expenses data this year. The app I was using
before is now even worse, so I decided to not use it anymore and remove all my
data from there.

The good news is that I decided to invest more time on investing this year, so
I had to organize my finances somehow. Because of the need for an organization, I
had to get all my investing data into one spreadsheet.

I decided to use
[dlombello's](https://www.dlombelloplanilhas.com/planilhas/controle-de-investimentos)
spreadsheet for that (pt-BR only). I have to say that I'm amazed by how
feature-complete is this spreadsheet. It's still worrisome that you have to
give full access to your Google account for it to work (because of external
scripts), so I created a Google account just for that. Until now, it totally
worth the effort.

Here are some charts I can get from the spreadsheet:

[![Pizza chart for my types of investments](/images/stats/2020/yir/invest-by-type.png "Types of investments by dlombello spreadsheet")](/images/stats/2020/yir/invest-by-type.png "")
[![Pizza chart for my types of investments by index](/images/stats/2020/yir/invest-by-index.png "Types of investments by index via dlombello spreadsheet")](/images/stats/2020/yir/invest-by-index.png "")

The first chart shows the types of investments I have. The Orange and green are
related to the stock market and the rest is bonds and others. The second chart
is the indexes these investments are related to.

I don't think these charts are very good, but I started to use this spreadsheet
last month and I don't have that many ways to retrieve good information from it
yet. I hope to have better data next year, let's see how it goes. üòâ

Regarding my savings, it **increased by 23.87%** this year (compared to 26.72%
in 2018 and 16.83% for a bit more than half of 2017), an **average increase of 2.57%** per month.

In 2017, I said I had 75.10% of my savings goal. Well, I met this goal in 2018. üòÖ

The plan was done long ago and it doesn't make sense anymore given the current
economic conditions. I decided to keep it anyway as it would be good to keep
the history until I meet the goal. When I finally got to the value I wanted, I
started a new plan.

Considering this new plan and the whole year of 2020, **I have 89.40% of my
goal**. I know it's weird to just introduce this value without further
background, but just wanted to keep it here for my future self.

Given the current circumstances and my life choices, this goal will have to
change this year. I'm OK with these changes, it's important to have plans but
it's also important to change them if the circumstances require such change
IMO.

I'm looking forward to seeing what this new year will do to my expenses and
general portfolio üòÖ.

## Time to write this blog post

Phew... finally finished this one. üòÖ

This time I could track the whole process and **it took 17h21min to write this
blog post**.

[![The total time and a list of entries with their duration](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-writing-time.png "Total time to write this blog post")](/images/stats/2020/yir/toggl-writing-time.png "")

I can say the same thing I said in 2017: It totally worth my time
to write this. We have so many good insights when reviewing the data we
collected. üòå


## Conclusion

I have nothing to complain about 2018 and 2020. The only thing I should have
done earlier in the year in review for 2018 because it totally changes my mood
about what I did. It's great to do reviews because you can clearly see (at
least it's the case for me) that you did what you wanted to do in the general
context.

It's clear to me that doing my year in review in 2017 helped to improve things
I could only see when looking in "bird's eye view". Some things are not so
noticeable when you're seeing them in context, but they become clear when you
put them in a yearly context.

I'm sure 2020 will be a year full of huge challenges for me, but I'm also
curious to see the data I'm going to collect this year! üòâ
