+++
title = "3D printing the Dactyl-cc case"
date = 2021-09-22
series = [
    "dactyl",
]
tags = [
    "english",
    "keyboards",
]
+++

This is another post of my [dactyl](/series/dactyl) series. This time I'm going
write about the process to make the 3D printed case, and prepare it for the
keyboard.

Unfortunately, the process of assembling the keyboard is taking much longer than
I anticipated. Being a parent of twins takes a lot of energy, and my predictions
were very distant from the truth (for a change!). For this reason, I'm posting a
step by step of what I'm doing with this dactyl project.

## 3D printing

There are some websites acting like marketplaces for 3D printing. One of them is
[treatstock](https://www.treatstock.com/), but there's also local people with 3D
printing using other places to advertise, so I decided to get some quotes for
the Dactyl-cc printing.

### Treat stock

On treatstock the process is quite simple to get a quote. I just found a place
that delivers to my location, uploaded the STL and got a price. Simple as that.
The problem is the price, because I got no less than R$300.

### Mercado livre

My next step was to look for a seller providing this service via Mercado Livre,
since we can find anything there (just like eBay, giving its own proportions). I
found a person doing it for R$240, but the process of getting the quote was not
very good. The person didn't even know what exactly he would print ðŸ™„.

### Recommendation

This is always the best way to go. If you have a recommendation, there's a good
chance things are going to work better, IMO.

A friend of mine, from a [Mechanical Keyboards Telegram
chat](https://t.me/tecladomecanicobr), have a contact who printed his [redox
keyboard](https://github.com/mattdibi/redox-keyboard) case for a good price, so
I decided to contact this person and ask for a quote. He could do it for R$100,
which is a pretty good price.

The process of getting the quote was great. We talked via Telegram, and he got
the STL files to analyze before getting back with the quote. I would totally
recommend it. If you're from Brazil and is looking for some 3D printing for your
keyboard, I totally recommend talking to Renato. His nickname is [@renny_br on
Telegram](https://t.me/renny_br).

### A favor from a friend

I was about to do it with Renato when I mentioned to a friend
([agaelebe](https://twitter.com/agaelebe)) if it was possible to use the printer
of the hackerspace he is a member ([Garoa Hacker Club](https://garoa.net.br))
and he said he was going to check.

After some time, he got back to me and said he could print it himself or ask one
of his friends to do it. He will just need the material if it's not available.
It turns out that his friend [Marcelo Campos](https://marcelocampos.cc), said he
could try to print this.

This is the left side right after printing (in September 2020, but I'm only
posting about this now. Thanks a lot, Marcelo!):

![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FPotHix-KB%2FIPJ-91OppJ.jpg?alt=media&token=4c4a27ca-99c1-4cca-ad3a-aaace35ba173)

## The results when I got the case

After a few days, I was able to get the case from
[agaelebe](https://twitter.com/agaelebe) and check it myself. For those who are
curious, this is the raw format you receive right after printing:

![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FPotHix-KB%2FjnIr2mxzVb.jpg?alt=media&token=6cfbad0a-c2f0-4af8-93b5-7cce32246cb6)

![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FPotHix-KB%2FEn13ZKrejm.jpg?alt=media&token=ad3e5cc9-bd90-4115-b594-4e8fe5a8ac5d)

![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FPotHix-KB%2FiE9rM8IkeL.jpg?alt=media&token=45392eac-469d-48c8-b903-b5a3ded34b52)

It was the first time I got some raw result of a 3D printing process in my
hands, and I found it quite interesting.

I was very curious about how it would look like with keycaps, so I cleaned it up
and added the switches and keycaps to check (I will talk about the process in
the next post). This is what I got:

![](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FPotHix-KB%2F0Tu3X2QPgt.jpg?alt=media&token=160c5773-e7af-428f-ab2b-5fa60a09bb4e)

Not pretty I would say, but it felt great to type on it. It almost felt like my
kinesis, and I still want to improve its aesthetics, so it motivated me to
continue.

This whole process was done in 2020 and the current version (still WIP) is more
advanced. I will post about the cleanup, sanding, and painting soon. ðŸ™‚
