+++
title = "How was Doist Retreat 2019"
date = 2019-04-05
draft = true
+++

**TL;DR**: I work remotely for [Doist](https://doist.com) and we bring
the whole team together somewhere in the world once an year. I will
describe how it was for me this year in Azores, Portugal üáµüáπ.

[I'm working for Doist for almost two years
now](/doist). When I posted about it for the first time,
my plan was to start a series of posts about what we are doing there
and how it feels to work with people that fully believe in the project
and the mantra of the company while working async and
fully-remote. Unfortunately, I couldn't prioritize such posts until
now (still have plans, maybe...), but I would like to at least mention
the retreats.

Since we started the company retreats tradition, we already met in
Menorca (Spain), Iceland, Athens (Greece), Chile, and Azores
(Portugal). I joined the company before the retreat in Chile, so I
just had the chance to participate in Chile and Azores.

# How our retreat works

The location is decided by the company and everyone is invited to
attend. It's encouraged for everyone to participate (but it's not
obligatory) and everything is paid by the company.

We need approval from the financial team in order to buy the tickets
but it's a simple process and we can buy everything ourselves as soon
as we receive the location. I can't imagine it happening if the
company had to organize everything by themselves, it would be a lot of
work. We are very good on trusting people and distributing work.

During the retreat we have time for work and leisure. I would say it's
60% leisure and 40% work. We stay at the same hotel and you can choose
to share your room or get a private one. Most people share, as it's
the only time in the year you will have the chance to meet someone
from a different team and discuss many different teams, but there's no
pressure at all to share.

The focus of the retreat is team building. We get some things done as
well, but our important projects are planned to run when we have
enough time to concentrate. We use the retreat time to know about
other cultures, discuss how we can improve process X and Y, how we can
make collaboration better, etc.

# My pre-retreat flights

**TL;DR (personal story)**: missed my flight due to bad weather, slept an avg of 5 hours,
was able to reschedule everything and got there "on time" (with the
wrong luggage).

[As I posted previously, I was organizing Rust LATAM on March 29 and
30](/post/how-was-it-to-organize-rust-latam/) and Doist retreat
started in April 1st, which means that I have 1 day to go from South
to North (Montevideo to Azores).

It was uncertain for some time if I would be able to organize Rust LATAM and attend the retreat but after a surprising turn of events, we shifted the dates a little bit and it was possible. It took me a lot of time to figure out the flights but I got it:

+ Fly to Montevideo 3 days before the conference.
+ Leave Montevideo 8 hours after the conference (basically have dinner, pack my stuff, and go to the airport) and go to S√£o Paulo.
* I had 6 hours to go home, change backpacks (which were already packed), take a shower and get back to the airport to get a flight to Lisbon (10 hours flight).
* In Lisbon I would have around 5-6 hours before getting a flight to Ponta Delgada.

I knew it would be tough but it was the only chance I had to participate on both events and I took it. It seemed tiresome but feasible, but I underestimated many things. üòê

Things started to get tough during Rust LATAM because we were not
sleeping that much and having stressful days to get everything set up
for the conference. My average of sleep time was about 5 hours during
the conference time. I was tired but not that concerned about it, everything was OK.

TODO: it's fine dog drawing image

The conference ended (it was amazing, [check the post if you want more
info](/post/how-was-it-to-organize-rust-latam/)) but my trip was just
starting. I had dinner with people from the conference (attendees,
speakers, organizers, etc.), packed my stuff and went to the
airport. We boarded and I immediately slept but when I woke up people
were leaving and the pilot was saying that "for our commodity, we will
be leaving the plane because the weather is not that good and we will
have to wait".

It was 3 AM At 6 AM we were informed that the airport is closed and
our flight was rescheduled to 8PM. üò± It screwed up everything I planned and I would miss my flight. I planned to be able to tolerate some hours of delay, but not 15. I bought it with two different airlines, so they could not guarantee that I can reach my destination and I would probably not be refunded for my second flight. üí∏

The whole boarding area was a mess after that. We had a group going to
watch Pe√±arol game against Flamengo on Maracan√£ and they were not very
pleased to miss the car they rented to get there and some other
things. It was hard to talk to the company. I tried to discuss, tried
to change my flight, tried to book a different ticket with a different
airline, and many other things. My wife was trying to fix things from
Brazil but they said I would have to check that in the airport if I
really wanted to go in the next 24h.

I got a document about the reason of the flight being cancelled
(closed airport because of bad weather) and went to the hotel to eat
and sleep for some hours.

At 5h we got the taxi to the airport and the flight was OK to S√£o
Paulo. When I got there, I went straight to TAP to check what I have
to do to be at PDL (Ponta Delgada) as soon as possible. **The document
was the key to reschedule my flight for free**, because it was not the
airline's fault, the airport was closed due to bad weather. I was
ready to pay for an expensive ticket to get there at the same day or
the next day but in the end they were able to reschedule for free. :)

I went to a flight leaving one hour and half after I landed in S√£o
Paulo. By doing that I was leaving my luggage, Cash (Euros), Gift (a
book for a friend), and many other things at home. I would need to do
laundry there and I will be using conference t-shirts but at least I
would be there on time.

I got the flight and slept 5-6 hours straight. When I woke up I
started preparing the slides for a workshop I had in the next day. I
would have help for this workshop so I was not that concerned about it
and had enough time to prepare the presentation.

Got to Lisbon and had a quick boarding to my flight to PDL. In the
end, I got to the hotel 1h before the reception dinner. üéâ

My feeling at the time was: "I have no idea how I got here, I just
followed the tickets they game me". LOL. It was very stressful but I
made it. :)

**PROTIP:** In case you find yourself in the same situation, stay calm
and **request a document** to the airline that explains the airport
bad conditions and try to resolve that when you get to the next
airport of your trip. There's not much you can do via internet or
telephone if you're planning to get a flight in less than 24h.

# A√ßores (Azores) and the retreat

Phew... I finally got to the retreat. :)

It's amazing to met all my colleagues again, and there's always
newcomers to meet. The fact that we're not working together every day
makes these moments very unique. It's interesting when you try to
catch up with the conversations you had one year ago. Things like:
"Hey, did you finish watching Game of Thrones?". LOL.

We had the opening by our CEO first. I really like the way
[Amir](https://twitter.com/amix3k) conducts the speech because it
usually don't feel formal, it's just him being the person he always
was. After that we went for dinner and we had a lot of time to eat
great food and have awesome conversations about many topics with
people from different teams. I had great conversations with our
Marketing team about the books we read until now and what others we
may consider. :)

Next day we had the first work sessions with a presentation about the
vision for the future of the company and the problems we are facing. A
short presentation with a lot of time for Q&A and discussions (my
preferred format for these kinds of events). After that was the first
session of workshops. We had 4 different tracks and I was the lead of
one of them. The topic was our logging system and how people from
other teams (android, iOS, support, etc.) can use it to debug their
problems without requiring a backend developer. Thanks to the help I
got from the lead of my team, the workshop was better than expected.

We usually don't sleep much during the retreats as well because people
usually go to some place to have fun together at night and I was
prepared for it. We had bowling two nights straight and it was
amazing.
