+++
title = "How to read Tolkien, in my experience"
date = 2021-08-26
tags = [
  "english",
  "books",
  "tolkien",
]
+++

I'm a huge fan of J.R.R. Tolkien, and It's not the first time friends
ask me about how to read Tolkien books. I even discussed this on Twitter because
of some misconceptions people have about some of his book. To make things clear,
I decided to write this with my opinion on the topic.

## Do not pick a book at random

Tolkien has [a long list of published
books](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/656983.J_R_R_Tolkien), some of them
he published in life, but most of them were published postmortem, edited by his
son Christopher Tolkien.

There are some books that Tolkien worked for many years to get to a state he
felt comfortable publishing. He was very meticulous about his work. To him,
everything must be taken very seriously. If it was not for his friends and
publisher pushing him to publish, there was a good chance these books would
never be published.

If you pick a book at random just because ~~a Tolkien fan~~ someone said it's a
great book, there's again a good chance you're going to get disappointed. That
happens because many of these books were released for people who already know
previous works and are looking for all the details Tolkien had in mind when
writing them.

## I never read Tolkien, which one should I pick?

This is the most common question I get, and my answer is always the same: **Pick
up "The Hobbit".**

The Hobbit is not the best book, I certainly prefer The Lord of the Rings, but
there are many advantages in starting with The Hobbit:

- It was the first book created and published by Tolkien. He went through the
  book from start to finish.
- The story is not dense, but still shows a lot of interesting things about
  middle earth and everything.
- The book has an OK-ish size (~300 pages), so you will not be afraid of start
  reading it.

I would even recommend people to pick [The audiobook, narrated by Andy
Serkis](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Hobbit-Audiobook/1705009050) (the actor
who played Gollum in the movies), [you can listen to a quick preview of him
reading the book on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=il2Py3ZlNe8), and
it's an **amazing** experience.

**When you finish reading The Hobbit, I would certainly recommend The Lord of
the Rings**. The book is amazing, but is **much denser** than The Hobbit, so you
have to be prepared for it. As you already read The Hobbit, you will be
familiarized with Tolkien's [very descriptive] writing style, so things tend to
be a bit easier on this side, and you can enjoy the world being built in your
mind.

## I already read The Hobbit and LotR! What's next?

I would recommend **[The Silmarillion](/silmarillion)** as the next one to pick.
I just want to say a few things before just recommending it, because I think
it's important for you to know.

Here is when you start to understand how interesting Tolkien's work really is as
a whole. When writing The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, Tolkien was not just
writing stories, he was using his world, already drafted for many years but
never finished, to create stories.

Tolkien was a linguist and loved to create languages. The reason why these
stories exist is to make these languages make sense, because it's hard to
create/study languages without tieing them to people and their culture. He also
wanted to create a legendarium for England, in the same way Norse and Icelandic
have theirs.

[The Silmarillion](/silmarillion) is a collection of stories written by Tolkien
to create this whole legendarium. His son Christopher did a Herculean work to
get all the context from everything his father wrote, and organize it in a
chronological order with a narrative that makes sense, but you still feel it was
not created as a single piece. I usually compare this to The Bible (please
forgive me if you're religious, I'm not anymore), because it **has** a
narrative, but you can feel this is a collection of texts.

Now that you get what The Silmarillion is, you can read it in many ways. The way
I recommend is to start with books that came out of it. One of them is The
Children of HÃºrin. It feels complete as a story by itself, and you can skip
the story about Turin Turambar when you finish this and start reading The
Silmarillion.

In summary, **start with The Children of HÃºrin, just to read the complete story
before reading The Silmarillion**.

## I want to read everything about the middle earth!

If you already read The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion
(along with the books that came from it and are a bit more complete: The
Children of HÃºrin, Beren and LÃºthien, etc.), you will now enter a territory
where things were not finished by Tolkien himself, so it's mostly his son
publishing stuff and giving context.

A good example of that is Unfinished Tales which, as the name suggests, is a
collection of interesting stories about middle earth that Tolkien started
writing but did not finish. Christopher Tolkien collected all of these stories
and gave context to everything that was not finished, considering everything his
father wrote. If you want to know everything, this is the next step.

There's also The History of the Middle Earth, which is the definitive book to
read if you want to know everything. It's a collection of books containing more
than 5000 pages about everything Christopher Tolkien was able to collect about
middle earth.

__This one I was not able to finish yet, but I have the complete collection here__ ðŸ™‚

## There is no more about middle earth to read, but I want more about Tolkien!

The first one to recommend here is [his biography](/tolkienbio). It's quite
interesting to see how Tolkien was just a professor living an ordinary life in a
small city of England and still was an amazing person.

Tolkien was [a professor in Oxford](/oxford-tolkien) and was very dedicated to
languages, especially the old English. You can find many books and essays about
his thoughts on languages and fairy tales. There's one book called Tree and
Leaf, containing a small story named Leaf by Niggle and also his essay On
Fairy-Stories, which is quite interesting.

Other than Leaf by Niggle, Tolkien some other Fantasy stories, usually to read
to his sons. I quite enjoy reading them and plan to read to my children as well.

- Roverandom: Is a story about a dog who have bitten the wizard's trousers and
  was transformed into a toy. He needs to go through some adventures to return
  to normal. Tolkien wrote it as a compensation for his son, when he lost his
  small toy.
- Farmer Giles of Ham: Is a cool story about a farmer that needs to slay a
  dragon. It's definitely fun. Tolkien, again, wrote this for his children.

There's also the famous stories in Tolkien's words. I read The Fall of Arthur,
The Legend of Sigurd & GudrÃºn, [The Story of Kullervo](/kullervo), and [The Lay
of Aotrou and Itroun](/aotrouanditroun). You will find the references to
Tolkien's stories in each one of these, but I would just recommend them if
you're really into Tolkien's works and want to see the references and stories
that inspired him.

## Appendix ðŸ˜…

There's (of course) some other things to check if you're reading the books (like
the appendix! Don't skip them!). When I read them (not listened to, at the
time), I decided to read the books listening to the soundtracks from the movies,
it was a great experience. ðŸ™‚

I also recommend you to check the [The Lord of the Rings
Project](http://lotrproject.com/) website. It tries to map everything from
Tolkien's works into a single place. You can see the path that characters took
in the map, what is the family tree of almost everyone, etc. I really recommend
it as reference material.

That's it! Hope it's helpful to people as much as it was fun to write this! ðŸ™‚
